.github/instructions/agents.instructions.md, before:

---
name: AI Agent Guidelines
applyTo: "**/*"
description: Concise, project-specific rules for AI coding agents working in this repo
---

# AI Agent Guidelines — obsidian-plugin-template

This short guide contains focused rules and examples to help AI coding agents make safe, high-quality changes quickly.

- Read `AGENTS.md` first; it contains higher-level policies and workflows.
- Tests first: preserve or extend existing tests. For any behavioral change, add a test that fails before implementing the change.
- Follow existing patterns rather than introducing new architecture:
  - Use `LanguageManager` and `SettingsManager` as shown in `src/main.ts` for i18n and settings lifecycle.
  - Validate and normalize external input using `.fix()` helpers (see `src/settings-data.ts`).
  - Reuse `PluginLocales` (`assets/locales.ts`) for translation resources and formatters.
- Build & scripts:
  - `scripts/build.mjs` uses esbuild `context()`; production builds write `metafile.json`. Use `process.argv[2] === 'dev'` to enable watch mode (tests mock this behavior in `tests/scripts/build.test.mjs`).
  - `scripts/obsidian-install.mjs` reads `manifest.json` for `id` and copies `manifest`, `main`, and `styles` to `<dest>/.obsidian/plugins/<id>`; it exits non-zero with a concise message when the manifest is missing—mirror these behaviors in integration tests (`tests/scripts/obsidian-install.test.mjs`).
- Tests & naming:
  - Unit tests: `*.spec.*` — fast, hermetic, BDD-style.
  - Integration tests: `*.test.*` — TDD-style; may use tmp dirs, child processes, or spawn/exec like `obsidian-install` tests.
  - Put tests under `tests/` mirroring `src/` layout. Follow the **one test file per source file** convention.
  - **Agent note:** the `vitest` CLI defaults to interactive/watch mode when invoked without a subcommand. Agents must use `vitest run <options>` or append `--run` so tests run non-interactively.
- Python module exports:
  - Every Python module must declare a top-level `__all__` tuple (even if empty). Use a `tuple` (not a `list`).
  - Place the `__all__` assignment after top-level imports (tests enforce ordering).
  - Do not hide imported names by aliasing them with a leading underscore solely to prevent export — rely on explicit `__all__` instead.
  - When changing a module's public API, update or add tests in `tests/test_module_exports.py` (or add module-level tests) that document the expected exports.
- Localization:
  - Add keys by editing `assets/locales/en/translation.json` first. Keep `{{...}}` and `$t(...)` intact and **do not** translate placeholders.
  - Add a test when adding user-facing strings (or a localization note) so translators and CI can detect missing or bad keys.
- Committing & PRs:
  - Use Conventional Commits. Run `npm run commitlint` locally to validate. Aim for header ≤72 chars (tools still accept 100 — use 72 as a human buffer) and wrap body lines at 100 chars. Prefer 72 for readability.
  - Add a changeset for public API or release-impacting changes.
- When changing infra (build, tests, versioning), update `AGENTS.md` with concise rationale and local verification steps (include the exact commands you ran).

If anything here is unclear or incomplete, open a short issue or suggest a direct edit to `AGENTS.md` so agents that follow can stay up to date.

---

**Template merge guidance:** This file is maintained in the template repository and may be periodically merged into downstream repositories created from this template. For downstream repositories, prefer making minimal edits to template instruction files and, when possible, add a new repo-specific instruction file (for example, `.github/instructions/<your-repo>.instructions.md`) to capture local agent rules. This approach reduces merge conflicts when upstream changes are applied; if you must change a template file, keep edits minimal and document the reason in `AGENTS.md` or link to a short issue in your repo.

Commit message:

chore(scripts): modernize Python scripts and docs
- Standardize imports and remove underscore-import aliases in Python
  scripts.
- Add explicit `__all__` to modules that expose public APIs and update
  typing/annotations for clarity.
- Clean up async helper names, logging calls, and semaphore usage.
- Update `AGENTS.md` and `.github/instructions/agents.instructions.md`
  to document the `__all__` export guidance and agent checklist.

.github/instructions/agents.instructions.md, after:

---
name: AI Agent Guidelines
applyTo: "**/*"
description: Concise, project-specific rules for AI coding agents working in this repo
---

# AI Agent Guidelines — obsidian-plugin-template

This short guide contains focused rules and examples to help AI coding agents make safe, high-quality changes quickly.

- Read `AGENTS.md` first; it contains higher-level policies and workflows.
- Tests first: preserve or extend existing tests. For any behavioral change, add a test that fails before implementing the change.
- Follow existing patterns rather than introducing new architecture:
  - Use `LanguageManager` and `SettingsManager` as shown in `src/main.ts` for i18n and settings lifecycle.
  - Validate and normalize external input using `.fix()` helpers (see `src/settings-data.ts`).
  - Reuse `PluginLocales` (`assets/locales.ts`) for translation resources and formatters.
- Build & scripts:
  - `scripts/build.mjs` uses esbuild `context()`; production builds write `metafile.json`. Use `process.argv[2] === 'dev'` to enable watch mode (tests mock this behavior in `tests/scripts/build.test.mjs`).
  - `scripts/obsidian-install.mjs` reads `manifest.json` for `id` and copies `manifest`, `main`, and `styles` to `<dest>/.obsidian/plugins/<id>`; it exits non-zero with a concise message when the manifest is missing—mirror these behaviors in integration tests (`tests/scripts/obsidian-install.test.mjs`).
- Tests & naming:
  - Unit tests: `*.spec.*` — fast, hermetic, BDD-style.
  - Integration tests: `*.test.*` — TDD-style; may use tmp dirs, child processes, or spawn/exec like `obsidian-install` tests.
  - Put tests under `tests/` mirroring `src/` layout. Follow the **one test file per source file** convention.
  - **Agent note:** the `vitest` CLI defaults to interactive/watch mode when invoked without a subcommand. Agents must use `vitest run <options>` or append `--run` so tests run non-interactively.
- Python module exports:
  - Every Python module must declare a top-level `__all__` tuple (even if empty). Use a `tuple` (not a `list`).
  - Place the `__all__` assignment immediately after top-level `import` / `from ... import ...` statements and before any other top-level code; repository tests enforce this ordering.
  - `__all__` should explicitly list the module's public API (functions, classes, constants) — omit names that are internal (leading underscore).
  - Remove underscore-import aliasing that was previously used only to avoid accidental exports. Example: `from typing import Any as _Any` -> `from typing import Any` and update references from `_Any` -> `Any`. Explicit `__all__` (not name-mangling) controls what a module exports.
  - Example — before/after (short):

    Before:

    ```py
    from typing import Any as _Any

    def helper(): ...
    def useful(): ...
    ```

    After:

    ```py
    from typing import Any

    __all__ = ("useful",)

    def helper(): ...  # private (leading underscore or omitted from __all__)
    def useful(): ...
    ```

  - When changing exports, update or add tests that assert the public surface (see `tests/test_module_exports.py`); add per-module export tests when appropriate.
  - Agent checklist: add `__all__`, remove underscore-only import aliases, run the Python export tests, and update any type annotations/usages affected by the import-name changes.
- Localization:
  - Add keys by editing `assets/locales/en/translation.json` first. Keep `{{...}}` and `$t(...)` intact and **do not** translate placeholders.
  - Add a test when adding user-facing strings (or a localization note) so translators and CI can detect missing or bad keys.
- Committing & PRs:
  - Use Conventional Commits. Run `npm run commitlint` locally to validate. Aim for header ≤72 chars (tools still accept 100 — use 72 as a human buffer) and wrap body lines at 100 chars. Prefer 72 for readability.
  - Add a changeset for public API or release-impacting changes.
- When changing infra (build, tests, versioning), update `AGENTS.md` with concise rationale and local verification steps (include the exact commands you ran).

If anything here is unclear or incomplete, open a short issue or suggest a direct edit to `AGENTS.md` so agents that follow can stay up to date.

---

**Template merge guidance:** This file is maintained in the template repository and may be periodically merged into downstream repositories created from this template. For downstream repositories, prefer making minimal edits to template instruction files and, when possible, add a new repo-specific instruction file (for example, `.github/instructions/<your-repo>.instructions.md`) to capture local agent rules. This approach reduces merge conflicts when upstream changes are applied; if you must change a template file, keep edits minimal and document the reason in `AGENTS.md` or link to a short issue in your repo.
